ZAC: All right guys, we're up!

MATT: All right, let's do this.

ZAC: They were all into dancing and the second we
went back live they were like, "Oh god no!"

LAURA: I know, right?

MATT: The song is the preference.

LAURA: It's the song.

ZAC: It's got to be the right song. I understand.

ASHLEY: I think the DM might have to go first.

LAURA: Yeah, DM has to go first. He has to lead
the group.

ZAC: So somebody bought us Just Dance 2014 and it
came in today. What are you feeling?

MATT: Ooh, how hard is the difficulty up at the
top?

ZAC: There's not really a difficulty.

MATT: I'm thinking Applause, maybe, it's a good
one.

ZAC: I bet it's hard. Gaga songs are hard, man.

MATT: Well then, we're going to start hard then,
aren't we? What other songs have we got? You

Can Feel It, I love that song.

ASHLEY: What's Careless Whisper?

ZAC: I don't know, they want Ashley and I to do
Careless Whisper.

ASHLEY: I don't know what that is.

MATT: In the Summertime's good too. All right,
good one--

LAURA: Which one's the camera?

ZAC: The red light.

LAURA: Okay, so we're off-camera right now?

ZAC: Maybe.

MATT: I am still feeling Gaga.

ZAC: Still feeling Gaga.

MATT: Marley. Starship's good too. We're getting
good ones here.

ZAC: Okay.

MATT: Aquarius? Hold on. This may have to be the
one I start with. We're going with Hair, guys.

ZAC: It's easy too. We'll start it off easy.

LAURA: Are you guys doing it together?

ZAC: Yeah.

MATT: Do I step over into the red?

ZAC: Yep, it's got your face up top. All right.
Let's do this.

TALIESIN: This is insane.

LAURA: I'm so scared.

[music]

MARISHA: Are you guys playing Aquarius?

MATT: Yep.

ZAC: Oh shit.

MARISHA: What is this?!

ZAC: Hey Lucas, can you turn the TV volume up?

MARISHA: Aww friends.

ZAC: Oh shit, we're still supposed to--

LAURA: Oh my god, this is so hard.

LUCAS: Have you never heard of Just Dance?

LAURA and TALIESIN: No!

LUCAS: What?!

LAURA: I've seen clips of it but I've never seen
people play it.

ZAC: This is too much.

LIAM: Work that halter top, Mercer!

TALIESIN: More fringe!

ZAC: Oh wait, now I'm backwards?

MARISHA: I like his flower crown. The flower crown
is my favorite.

LIAM: Perfect! You're perfect!

MARISHA: Yeah, get low! Get low!

ZAC: Oh no, we're back.

ZAC: Shit, there's more hugs today than I've had
like--

LIAM: Peace sign!

MARISHA: What is happening right now?

ZAC: Jesus Christ.

MATT: That got a little weird.

ZAC: Oh shit, oh fuck!

ORION: Let the sunshine in!

MARISHA: Shine the light, find your windows. Go
through the vowels ladies. A, E, I, O, U. Yeah,

shake it off. Yeah, shake it.

MATT: This is easy, guys, by the way.

MARISHA: I'm pretty sure they got your mom.

TALIESIN: This looks like my mom, doesn't it?

MARISHA: It sort of does look like your mom.

ZAC: Oh no, you're-- Oh shit.

LIAM: Wow! Oh man. I'm so confused and aroused
seeing Matt versus his avatar.

[music]

ZAC: If you guys haven't got us up to our 50-count
of subs already, Jesus Christ!

LIAM: How many times have you played this this
month, Zac?

ZAC: Every night, five days a week.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: We should come by here every night and
work out.

MARISHA: Yeah, no shit. Why would you pay for a
gym?

ZAC: Wait, wait, no.

MARISHA: Eye contact, eye contact!

ZAC: Oh, there's a shimmy!

LIAM: We'll go next, but you warm up to it. Warm
up to it, Travis.

MATT: That's how much we love you guys. That's not
going to be permanent on the internet or anything,

right?

ZAC: Who's next?

LIAM: The twins.

LAURA: The twins are up!

MARISHA: Twinsies!

LIAM: What do you got?

LAURA: Don't step on my feet, because I've got to
take my flips off.

LIAM: All right.

LAURA: I'm happy.

ZAC: We've all already stepped out.

TALIESIN: As long as there's a good 80s song here,
I'm down for whatever.

MARISHA: I'm sure there's a good 80s song. I mean,
they did Aquarius.

ZAC: This is the best part right here.

(laughter)

LAURA: Oh my god!

MATT: That's a thing.

MARISHA: Look at all of us judging you in the
corner!

(laughter)

LAURA: I didn't know I was on! I thought I was off
screen.

ZAC: Let's continue without saving. All right, so
you left and right.

LIAM: So we just go through what they've got?

LAURA: No, it has to be easy. How do we know
what's easy?

LIAM: Yeah, how do we know what's easy, Zac?

ZAC: The tempo's pretty--

LIAM: Just Dance. I want to recognize the song.

LAURA: Careless Whisper.

LIAM: I don't know that.

LAURA: You don't know Careless Whisper? It's an
80s song.

LIAM: Flashdance, Get Lucky? Ghostbusters?

LAURA: We could do Gentleman.

LIAM: No.

LAURA: I Will Survive?

MARISHA: Sure, you want to go next?

LAURA: No, not YMCA. 99?

LIAM: Sure. Classic. Easy.

LAURA: Easy, good! Continue. Wait, continue.
Okay.

LIAM: Step in. What does that mean?

LAURA: I want to be red. Okay, I'm Crazy.

LIAM: What does this mean?

LAURA: Go over.

ZAC: 25 subs away.

MATT: 25 subs, we can do this, guys!

LAURA: I want to be green?

TALIESIN: No, you want to be in blue and he
wants-- wait, there we go. Now get in the red.

LAURA: What are you? I'm red?

LIAM: I have no idea what's going on.

LAURA: I'm red. Whatever, you're the other color.

LIAM: Was sieht fur mich. Oh, shit. Well, fuck
that. Oh, wait. I'm the girl? Good. I'm the girl.

LAURA: What is that?

LIAM: Hail Hydra!

[music]

MARISHA: What is this shit?

TALIESIN: This is awesome.

MARISHA: You guys are both wearing one glove.
Because you're super cool. Super cool with your

one glove.

LAURA: I feel like it didn't get me.

ASHLEY: Get it!

(laughter)

[music]

LIAM: Oh, the whiskey's turning.

LAURA: This is bad.

ASHLEY: Get it, Laura!

[music]

LAURA: Oh my god! I'm going to die!

LIAM: This is The Hunger Games!

MARISHA: I know, they picked the longest versions
of these songs they could find. I know! We have

three edited longer versions.

[music]

LAURA: Oh god!

(cheering)

LIAM: Wait, hold on. It's set.

MARISHA: Back-to-back, that's right. Smile for the
camera.

ZAC: Oh, that was fucking beautiful!

LIAM: Holy shit.

LAURA: Twins, baby.

LIAM: That's no joke.

LAURA: That was so tiring!

MATT: Do the sexy shampoo commercial with the
hair.

MARISHA: Twins!

MATT: Ashley is the happiest!

LIAM: Man.

LAURA: Oh, Ashley!

ASHLEY: I'm the happiest?

LAURA: How do we do playback?

LIAM: I already ran eight miles today. What the
fuck!

LAURA: Oh, how do we do playback? Is that a
control thing?

MATT: How do you do playback on this?

LAURA: Oh. There we go.

(laughter)

MATT: I love this!

TALIESIN: This is amazing.

(cheering)

LIAM: Where's Travis?

LAURA and LIAM: Travis!

MARISHA: All right, what are we doing?

LIAM: Taliesin and Marisha, then you. Get ready!

TALIESIN: Okay, let's keep rolling.

ASHLEY: Oh, this is my jam!

MARISHA: Yeah?

TALIESIN: No.

LIAM: That's pretty good! Rich Girl!

TALIESIN: I don't know the song, but I'm down.

LIAM: But you can dance to it!

MARISHA: There's a cool robot dude.

TALIESIN: There's a cool robot. Do the robot.

MARISHA: We don't know what this is, but sure.
Classic. Should we do medium or easy?

TALIESIN: Easy.

MARISHA: Oh, it's just Classic? It's just a medium
song? Oh.

MATT: Aw, shit.

ZAC: You guys get power suits for this
one?

TALIESIN: Oh hell yeah.

LAURA: What?!

MARISHA: We get power suits?! Hell yeah! You look
cooler than I do.

ASHLEY: Oh shoot!

MATT: That's amazing!

MARISHA: Why do you look like a Transformer?

LIAM: Taliesin, you're getting back to your roots,
here. Oh shit! Yeah! Up, down! Out! Up, down!

MARISHA: What is this? Call this, "The Swedish
Fish."

ASHLEY: Oh shoot, switching sides!

MARISHA: Pew! Pew-pew!

(laughter)

[music]

MARISHA: You look kind of like an angry cosplayer
at Comic-Con, I'm not to going to lie, Taliesin.

Your dude looks like he's not having it anymore.

[music]

MARISHA: Talk to the hand, talk to the hand.

[music]

LIAM: My god, this is just like Evangelion!

[music]

MARISHA: My son-bearing hips.

[music]

LIAM: Wow, Marisha! Yeah! Yeah! Wow, you guys are
holding your own!

(cheering)

MATT: That was awesome.

ZAC: Travis, if it makes you more comfortable,
Lucas and I will dance with you. The two tech guys

will dance with you.

TRAVIS: In a three-way?

LIAM: No, Ashley's got to get in. Ashley's got to
get in! All right, click here. We've got to see

the playback.

MATT: Jesus, that score's ridiculous!

MARISHA: How do you know?

LAURA: Wow, you beat us!

(laughter)

ZAC: You guys killed it.

LIAM: All right, get ready. Gnome and goliath,
here we go.

ZAC: All right, guys, we are 16 away from giving
away another signed poster and a promo kit. So 16

away.

LIAM: Respect Zac's authoritah!

TRAVIS: You've got to pick. I can't pick this
shit.

ASHLEY: Oh gosh, I don't know, man.

LIAM: We've got a giant and a smurf about to dance
together. Let's do it.

LAURA: You should do Gentleman. Or Get Lucky.

ASHLEY: Misunderstood is a good song.

LAURA: Do Daft Punk, do Get Lucky.

TRAVIS: I'm going to barf. I'm going to barf
pizza.

TALIESIN: If I can do it, anybody can. God.

LAURA: You were great.

TALIESIN: That was fine.

TRAVIS: Prince Ali?

LAURA: Yes. Okay, that's pretty good, too.

ASHLEY: Oh hey, I don't know about this song.

TRAVIS: Is this a good song? Yeah, what is this?

LIAM: Get Lucky. (singing) We're up all night 'til
the sun--

ASHLEY: I'm supposed to be right in the middle of
the thing?

LAURA: Oh wait, Matt, you're right there. Duck
down. You're in the box. There we go.

TRAVIS: So we're supposed to stay here? What the
fuck?

MARISHA: Oh yes, Daft Punk!

TRAVIS: Oh shit!

MARISHA: Oh yeah, the hip-thrusty action.

[music]

TRAVIS: This is hard!

ASHLEY: Oh, crap! This is hard!

[music]

TRAVIS: What is this magic?

[music]

MATT: (singing along)

TRAVIS: The head-bobbing!

LIAM: Best K-Pop duo ever!

MATT and TALIESIN: (singing along)

LIAM: Travis, you're locking the perfect scores!

ASHLEY: Holy crap, this is so tiring! Fuck!

LIAM: This is your cardio, man!

ALL: (singing along)

TRAVIS: We're killing this. Oh no! This part! Oh,
the head thing.

ASHLEY: Oh fuck, this is so fast!

[music]

TRAVIS: Oh no!

ASHLEY: Oh my god! Oh fuck!

MARISHA: Oh yeah! Break it down!

LIAM: Yes! Oh my god, it's so good!

(laughter, cheering)

[music]

TRAVIS: Oh no.

ASHLEY: This move is so hard!

TRAVIS: I want to rage right now. Grog rages!

[music]

ASHLEY: Fuck!

[music]

MATT: Finish it off, guys!

MARISHA: Yeah!

[music]

(cheering)

MATT: Ash, don't leave him hanging!

LIAM: Where's the remote?

ASHLEY: That is a workout.

TRAVIS: You killed it.

(laughter)

MATT: Oh, it's so good.

TRAVIS: Oh, god.

ZAC: Who's left?

LIAM: Tiberius has not danced.

ORION: I'm taking a pass.

ZAC: Lucas and I could dance with you, if it makes
you feel better.

ORION: Nah, I don't like to.

ZAC: All right. Well, Lucas and I have to do our
dance, that's for sure.

TALIESIN: How often do they put out new songs?

ZAC: Oh, Lucas is getting his shoes tied? Okay.
I'll find the perfect Lucas and Zac song, here. Is

this a good one?

LUCAS: I'm not very good at the footwork.

ZAC: Not very good at the footwork? Okay. All
right.

LAURA: Yes, Lady Gaga!

MATT: If you guys do Applause, I'll jump in there
with you.

TRAVIS: Lady Gaga!

ZAC: Okay, you want to get in the middle? You're
going to hop in the middle here? You might have to

get a little bit in front of Lucas. Lucas, we're
back here.

MATT: (singing along)

LUCAS: Crazy. They know.

TRAVIS: Oh no, it's tracking.

ZAC: Are we good, Lucas? We are?

ASHLEY: What is this? Perfect! Perfect scores!

LIAM: Dance, Clarota, dance!

TALIESIN: Oh my god.

LIAM: Mind flayer!

MARISHA: Yeah, Zac! Yeah, backup dancers!

(cheering)

MARISHA: Oh, she lost her outfit.

TRAVIS: Get it, Mercer! Fucking get it, son!

ASHLEY: Get it Mercer!

ORION: This is gold.

MARISHA: Oh god, team Eubank.

ASHLEY: Mercer! You're doing amazing!

TRAVIS: He's had extensive training at Burning
Man.

TALIESIN: This is exactly what Burning Man is
like, by the way.

TRAVIS: That's what I figured.

[music]

ASHLEY: Get it, Mercer! Mercer's killing it!

MARISHA: Yeah, start that lawnmower. Start it.

ASHLEY: He's like, phew, this is tough work, but we
got to do it.

TRAVIS: What the fuck, man?! Destroy it!

ASHLEY: Get it! Mercer!

ZAC: This song's a lot longer than I remember,
man. We did it, guys.

(cheering)

ZAC: What was the score on that? Was that you? Oh,
that was you. That was all Lucas. He's the champ.

LUCAS: It was all me! That's the first one I've
ever won.

[music]

ZAC: You're welcome for that GIF that's going to
show up on the internet.

TRAVIS: That's amazing.

LIAM: Two more subs!

MATT: Two more subs to go, guys!

ZAC: Wait, just two more subs to go?

LUCAS: One more sub.

ZAC: Oh, we brought it in on that one.

MATT: Yeah!

(cheering)

ZAC: All right, I think you guys should do one big
group one to bring it in.

MARISHA: One big group one?

LUCAS: Ghostbusters!

LIAM: Ray. Let's go.

MARISHA: All right.

LIAM: Anybody else?

TALIESIN: Yeah, fuck it.

LIAM: Come on. Group of four?

MATT: I'm going to Dungeon Master this one.

LAURA: All right. Is everyone ready?

MARISHA: Here, you trade me because I'm barefoot
and you're not barefoot, so stand next to Laura.

Less feet to step on. Oh yeah, we get sweet suits.

ZAC: You want me to scoot this couch back a little
bit?

TALIESIN: We're getting into our blocks.

ASHLEY: Strong knee.

MARISHA: I don't know. Step in where?

TALIESIN: Like there. So here. Back up a bit.

LAURA: I'm in it. I'm in my box.

TALIESIN: You're getting green.

LAURA: Oh no!

MARISHA: What just happened? Did that work?

LIAM: Yeah, it worked.

MATT: Welcome to Critical Role.

MARISHA: The dance party.

ORION: Wait, who's--

MARISHA: Am I Slimer? Are you Slimer?

LIAM: Oh, I'm Slimer?

MARISHA: Oh.

ZAC: Oh my god. Yes!

ASHLEY: I don't have my glasses on!

(yelling)

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MARISHA: (giggling)

TALIESIN: Who you going to call?

ORION: Oh god, it's the Macarena.

(yelling)

(laughter)

MARISHA: Yeah, Ghostbusters.

TRAVIS: Here it comes.

(yelling)

ORION: Oh no, are we changing something?

(laughter)

MATT: Pick up the phone.

MARISHA: What's up. Oh, mixing it up.

ASHLEY: Oh, we're spraying!

MATT and TALIESIN: (singing) Yeah, yeah, yeah,
yeah.

ORION: Oh my god, we're going.

MARISHA: Oh no! Ghosts!

(yelling)

(laughter)

TRAVIS: Here it comes.

(yelling)

[music]

ALL: Ghostbusters!

[music]

(cheering)

LAURA: Oh, I nailed it, I got the best!

MATT: Yeah, Happy, what's up!

TALIESIN: Where is that coming from?

LIAM: Controller, controller.

MARISHA: Yes!

(laughter and cheering)

MATT: Yeah! We're covered in slime!

MARISHA: Yes!

(laughter and cheering)

MATT: That's great.

MARISHA: Oh, that was good.

ZAC: Guys, bracheon89 won the giveaway. We made
it.

(cheering)

MATT: Yes!

ZAC: Everyone's like, play Bloodborne, but it's
like come on, you know you want to see them dance.

MATT: Good choice. That was good.

ZAC: Thank you guys for tuning in tonight.

MARISHA: My butt is sweating.

ZAC: Everybody was really appreciative that you
guys stuck around. Are you okay?

MATT: Yeah, we're all going to sleep really
fucking well tonight.

MARISHA: We play D&D. We're not sportsy.

ZAC: Amir, are you going to dance? You don't want
to dance with me?

MATT: Amir, I think you should dance.

ZAC: I'm pretty sure the chatroom would like to
see you dance.

Come on, buddy. You and I can do one. I'll do
it seriously, too, so you don't have to feel like

an asshole. Guys, make sure to tune in tomorrow
for So You Don't Have To, where Hector and Becca

play the worst games we can find. Oh, hey, good
job.

AMIR: What the fuck did you land us on? What does
it sound like? I've never even heard of this song.

ZAC: You've heard of it. Fuck, we'll figure it
out.

AMIR: I'm funky. Happy is--

ZAC: Bye, guys.

MATT: Oh, yeah. What is this Mario bullshit?

ASHLEY: Get it!

LIAM: There they go. Why is there only one person
on the screen?

AMIR: I think we're both doing the same.

TRAVIS: (yelling) Get it! Yeah!

MATT: Yeah, take it home.

[music]

AMIR: What the hell is this?

ZAC: I don't fucking know. Fuck it.

(cheering)

ZAC: Oh shit, I don't know what--

AMIR: Now, now, now.

(cheering)

[music]

ZAC: I'm always backwards on that.

AMIR: I can't do this one. What, what?

ZAC: What the fuck? I don't know, man.

AMIR: What?

ZAC: What's with all the fucking pointing? What?

AMIR: What?

(cheering)

ZAC: Amir! Guys, thank you for tuning in tonight.
Breathe. Okay, tomorrow, we've got So You Don't

Have To with Hector and Becca. They play the worst
games I can find so they don't have to, or so you

don't have to. I said that backwards. And then we
have Gather Your Party, where it's just a bunch of

people coming over to play board games and have a
great time. We have a musical guest, Manny

Hagopian. Do any of you guys know Manny Hagopian?
He did the music for Titanfall, stuff like that,

but he's also a comedic singer-songwriter, so he's
coming by tomorrow night to play some songs. Shit!

Saturday is Tabletop Day. Who all is coming?
Matt's coming. Everybody's coming, right? Marisha,

you're coming?

MARISHA: Yeah, I'll be there.

ZAC: Shit! Ashley bailed on Monday night's Honesty
Hour. You guys can give her shit about that on

Twitter.

ASHLEY: Sorry!

ZAC: Thank you guys for all the subs tonight.
We're still giving those away. We still have ten

of those to give away, so you'll be hearing us
pump that up tomorrow. And the following Monday,

Ashley's in, until she decides to do something
better and lets me know. Or anything else at all

is probably a better choice. All right. Lucas,
turn me off.

MARISHA and ASHLEY: Bye!