[upbeat music]

BRIAN: My people! Welcome to Talks Machina Live at
WonderCon! Give it up!

(cheering)

BRIAN: You guys are looking good. If you're
looking at my haircut and wondering if you

accidentally stumbled into the Imagine Dragons
panel, you did not. The beard is in New York. I am

your host for this afternoon, affordable Chris
Hardwick, the internet's Brian Wayne Foster. Thank

you for coming! If you guys have seen Talks
Machina, you know we like to open the show with a

single question. Does anyone know what it is? Are
we on the internet, Denise?

DENISE: No, guys. You know we're pre-taping this
for Tuesday, right?

BRIAN: I know, okay, we are not on the Internet.
We will be on Tuesday.

DENISE: Yeah, uh-huh. That's correct. Uh-huh.

BRIAN: I literally just said that, Denise.

DENISE: Uh-huh, yeah, correct.

BRIAN: Moving on. No. We're going to go over a few
things really fast while we wait for Sam to get

here. I'm just kidding, I'm just kidding. Thank
you guys for waiting so long out there in line,

and for coming to see us. Some of you as far away
as Finland. Where are my Finland dudes at?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Here!

BRIAN: Yes! Woo! The tall guys in the front. This
panel will air 7:00 Tuesday night in our

normal timed slot on Geek & Sundry's Twitch and
Alpha. 7:00 PM Pacific, if you guys want to watch

this. If you're watching it right now, it's
Tuesday. Hello. I have the night off! I'm at home

drinking in the dark! Did you guys get pins when
you came in? Everybody get pins? We made those

specially for you guys, so hope you like them. If
we see you out and about today, there's also

people giving out some pin that says something
about "Free Denise" or whatever. So those are

some special edition ones. My grandfather used to
tell me, "Brian, a lot of things in this world are

"free, and Denise is not one of them." We're going
to try our best today to keep things as general as

possible, but as always, there may be some
spoilers if you are not all the way caught up on

Critical Role, #sorry #blamebrian. And finally, we
like on Talks Machina for most of the questions to

come from you guys. So, halfway through the panel,
I'm going to let you know to line up at the mics

and we'll spend the second half of the panel, you
guys asking questions. Do me a huge favor, do

everyone else a huge favor, please just one
question. Don't think we're going to have time for

individual questions for each of the cast. There's
still a lot of them for now. Try to limit it to

one or two questions. One question for one or two
cast members, if you will. And now, without

further ado, I would like to introduce the cast of
Critical Role.

[dramatic music]

BRIAN: Please welcome Travis Willingham!

Marisha Ray!

Taliesin Jaffe!

Sam Riegel!

Liam O'Brien!

Woo! Laura motherfucking Bailey!

And our fearless leader, give it up, Mr. 
Matthew Mercer! Give it up! My goodness.

MATT: That's a lot of people. Hi!

SAM: Brian, how's it feel? This is the most people
that have or ever will see your show!

BRIAN: I would have thought it'd be a quarter of
this. At least after the first week. Speaking of

all these beautiful people out here, let's start
by talking about the community. I'm not going to

ask many individual questions, so you guys fight
over who wants to answer what. Sam, make sure

everyone gets a turn, please.

SAM: I can sing.

BRIAN: Let's hear it. Give us some Britney.
Yeah, give us a little Britney.

SAM: Britney? (singing) You might've been hurt,
babe. (normal) I don't know, is that Britney?

BRIAN: That's perfect. No, that's good. I think
that's a great place to stop. So between the

different portals where Critical Role is
available, every week a pretty insane amount of

people watch the show, unlike mine. I'm joking. I
said that because Sam said that. You're watching,

Mom, and that's all that matters. What's been the
coolest or most surprising part about the

community surrounding this show for you guys?

MATT: I'll jump in here and say that an internet
space that can be a very volatile and opinionated

place for people who are passionate, I'm
perpetually and continually proud that this

community has been so open, so accepting, and so
supportive of each other that it's kind of allowed

Critical Role to become so much more than just a
show. The community itself has become really the

driving and most important and magical thing about
it to me. So that's you guys. We're talking about you!

LAURA: Oh, there I am. I've been most surprised by
all of the sexy-time art.

BRIAN: All of the sexy-time art.

LAURA: That's really not surprising.

SAM: If I may, I've been recently most impressed
and surprised by the babies that have been named

after Liam. Several new babies are out there in
the world named Liam. I'm just throwing it out

there, Sam's a nice name for a boy or a girl!

MATT: So is Travis. Boy or girl.

LIAM: I like seeing the hundreds of pictures we've
seen of new games that you guys are playing. A lot

of people who watch the show have never played
D&D, didn't know what it was when they started.

We've seen hundreds of photos of people around card 
tables and dining room tables. It's amazing to see this

game that we quietly loved on our own at home,
spreading the way it is. I mean, it's been around

for ages but I feel like it's really kind of
setting on fire.

BRIAN: Heck yeah. So yeah. Hmm.

SAM: The golf clap.

BRIAN: A lot of people were like, I agree with
what he said, but I'd like to be gentle about it.

So as we're approaching nearly a hundred episodes
of Critical Role, and let's see, almost probably

five years of playing some of these characters?

MATT: Yeah.

BRIAN: What are the joys and challenges of a game
versus a show, and how do you not lose one or the

other?

MATT: Oh man, that's a good question.

BRIAN: He's confused by the question immediately.

MATT: As far as, like, challenges of both ways,
when you have a show, especially when it's

something that you do privately that's put on
display, there's a difficulty of, one, waiting for

an audience to set it on fire and watch the thing
you love be burned to the ground. Thankfully that

didn't happen!

BRIAN: That's my job, Matt.

MATT: Not yet. But I think at least, between the
two, what makes shows like this and other tabletop

shows and kind of what internet media is pushing
for now is people that are open about their

passion and are creating it for themselves as well
as the audience, and not just as content to be

consumed. It's an invitation to be part of it, as
opposed to, "Hope you like this thing I made!" As

long as we maintain that, I think we're doing
okay.

TRAVIS: I think we had two solid years of playing,
so we knew what our game was, we knew who our

characters were. We knew how much we hate each
others' guts and how irreverent we are. We don't

give a shit what anybody thinks.

MARISHA: Definitely not friends.

TRAVIS: Right, that's true.

MARISHA: Not based on friends.

TRAVIS: Once we got used to the random-ass cameras
being in the room, we keep doing our thing. Live

shows are totally, that's another thing.

TALIESIN: That's a whole different thing.

TRAVIS: There's a lot of people out there.

MARISHA: I know. Yeah, I will say, doing the live
show when I got the "How do you want to do this?"

and the entire audience exploding at Gen Con?
Definitely one of the top three, maybe four

moments of my life. It's insane.

MATT: That is one of the weirdest things. Having
this little phrase that organically started in our

game rooms at home, not just on merch, but other
people in thousands of games use it now. I'm like,

it's exciting! I would never have thought that!

MARISHA: People have it tattooed on their bodies.

MATT: I know, I'm sorry! This was not expected!

LAURA: I have it tattooed across my lower back.

MATT: You, too?

TRAVIS: You do?!

LIAM: Sam in a random game at Laura and Travis'
dining room table, putting his finger here, is now

the stuff of legend.

SAM: Yeah. But we always did blame Keyleth, even
at the home game.

MATT: Thanks, Keyleth.

SAM: We kept that consistent.

BRIAN: Before this goes completely off the rails
in about four minutes, hey, my dad's here, guys. A

lot of people recently have been talking about the
connection between tabletop RPGs and social

therapy. Has the show been therapeutic for you
guys in any way, and if so, you know, in what ways?

TRAVIS: I mean, we drink a lot.

LIAM: You're going to put it right out there,
huh?

TRAVIS: Water. We drink water a lot.

BRIAN: They're too far away to see all the liver
stains on your face from all of the Goldschl√§ger.

TALIESIN: I'll say the game is therapeutic. I
don't necessarily know if broadcasting it on the

internet is therapeutic. But the game is! I work
things out.

MARISHA: Yeah, we work things out from the
response on the internet from the week before on

the game. It's like an ouroboros.

TALIESIN: It was a few weeks ago, I was with you,
and I was like, man, I'm in a mood. Percy's going

to do something messed up, man. Argh. I need to put
it somewhere. I'm going to kill a guy. Somebody

yelled at my mom three states away, grr. True
story.

MARISHA: That is true, yeah.

LAURA: I think, more than anything, it's the
getting to hang out with our family every single

week, you know? Because getting to hang out with
you guys always puts me in such a good mood, any

time I'm depressed or anything like that, the
minute we all get together it's so uplifting.

Yeah. Wah-wah, cheesy, whatever. But it's true.

TALIESIN: It's true though, because we've all done
theater. There's that family thing that happens in

theater, but then there's that pre-show jitter
that happens with theater. I don't get the

pre-show jitter, I just get the family vibe. It's
really nice.

LAURA: I fully get a pre-show jitter. Every time
I'm on my way to the show, I'm like, I feel like

I'm about to do a play that I know none of the
lines to.

BRIAN: That's why you do a bunch of shots first.

MATT: Don't even talk about pre-show jitters to
me, guys. I'm a madman for an hour before every

cast. You guys see me, I don't even talk to them.
They come by like, hey Matt! I'm like, go away,

I'm setting things up.

LAURA: And then when Sam wasn't there, just
recently, we reminded you right before the show,

we were like, oh yeah! Sam's not here this week!
You were like, oh, that's right! And you had to

completely play Tary out of the blue.

MATT: I was like, okay, cool, that's happening!
Give me more of that water, Travis!

TRAVIS: Yeah, we have rituals for that. All the
profanities that we throw to you right before we

go live? It's our way of going, welcome, Matt!

MATT: Yeah, that's a great little dodge and weave
every week now.

LIAM: Born out of love.

MARISHA: Some people walk out to the ring with
hardcore metal music. We shout profanities at our

DM. That's what we do to hype ourselves up.

MATT: I don't recommend it unless-- be really good
friends with your DM before you do that, please.

That's when the boulder appears and crushes your
character, so be careful.

MARISHA: On this entire question about therapy,
we've only talked about things that people go to

therapy about.

MATT: But that's also part of therapy! But no, to
try and tie it back to the question--

BRIAN: Please.

TRAVIS: No, leave the question alone. It's done.

MATT: Well no, I mean, tabletop gaming, there's
been a lot of studies that speak on the

therapeutic benefits of the ability to create a
persona that is outside of yourself, live in those

shoes, and build empathy through that experience.
I know I owe a lot of who I am today to playing

tabletop gaming. Not only this experience forged
our friendships to be as strong as they are, but

it's now gone out and forged all these
friendships through this community and beyond. You

know, there are people I used to game with that I
still keep in contact to this day from a long time

ago. So it's a weird shared bond, like, going
through a very intense experience together with

people, except it's all up here because we're
crazy. In my eyebrows. Everyone has to go into my

eyebrows for the adventure.

BRIAN: He stores all the next campaign in those
eyebrows.

MATT: That's what Wildemount is translated to in
Dwarvish.

LIAM: I'll also say, I have one last thing to add.
Before this show was a show, when it was just a

game, oh boy.

MATT: Let it happen.

LIAM: I, in a very real way, hit rock bottom when
this was just our game at home. Then I did it

again during this show. The people you're seeing
up here are the closest, outside of my own family,

are my family. We're not faking it. We weren't
cast. These are the closest people in my life.

They helped me work through some shit on stage.
It's one of the greatest gifts in my life.

BRIAN: Hell yeah.

(cheering)

LAURA: That got more than golf claps, Liam!
Congratulations!

SAM: He's sensitive.

BRIAN: Even at WonderCon, something for Tumblr.
Okay. That is all for Tumblr. Hey, where do you

guys feel Vox Machina stands in their
ever-evolving ability to plan and seek varying

options? How do you think it's going?

LIAM: We are role models!

LAURA: We're the worst. Just the worst at
planning.

TRAVIS: Man, we're Seal Team Six, shut up!

LAURA: Honestly, that's one of the hardest things
about knowing that it's being broadcast, because

if we were at home and we were going through this
planning stage, it'd be, okay, well, we're taking

our time planning, no big deal. Let's go get some
snacks while we're doing it.

LIAM: Who wants another mimosa?

LAURA: Exactly, we'd be drinking mimosas,
whatever. But on the show, I know that people are

probably like, oh my god, just do something
already!

MATT: By "people", you mean Travis?

LAURA: Yeah, pretty much. Yeah, I do have that
smoke rising next to me. I can feel it.

MATT: I will say, you guys have gotten better
recently. I mean, moderately. Incrementally. There

has been more planning. There has been more seeing
alternate options before making a choice. This

happened in a recent episode. So you guys are
stepping, baby steps, in a good direction! Travis

is already out, all right. Next question.

TALIESIN: No, but there's a fair point, also, to
say, and I feel like this is true even of my home

games that we played before stream, I think of--
and I know I'm going to get a list of movie

titles. You think of your favorite movies and so
many of them are about making a plan and executing

it perfectly, and then everything going fine, and
like, that's not fun. Chaos is fun! Complete lack

of control is fun!

TRAVIS: You sounded like the Joker just then. That
was amazing.

LIAM: We all can't wait till Travis has to play a
19-intelligence general or wizard next campaign.

MARISHA: Yeah, if you're not some type of war
general planning Sun Tzu type of shit next

campaign--

LAURA: It'll be great. Then we'll all know what to
do.

TRAVIS: I plan to play a pigeon next. I'm going
down. I'm not going up. Intelligence of six? I'm

coming to three.

LAURA: He does nothing but drool the whole game.

BRIAN: To go with Matt's point about being
moderately better at it, the reason the panel

started late is we were in the back and then the
security guy said, "The panel's right through that

"door." And everybody stopped and went--

TRAVIS: Our old nemesis.

BRIAN: We've seen one of these before! Matt, tell
us a little bit, mild, teeny baby mild-sauce

spoilers. Tell us a little bit about devil
contracts and the dangers of the Hells, where Vox

Machina currently find themselves.

MATT: Well, for those who aren't familiar with the
difference between devils and demons, in a

nutshell, demons are an ancient chaotic force of
destruction and mayhem. Devils are very organized,

tyrannical structure of chaos and mayhem. Recent
adventures bring them to a very dangerous place,

with a lot of large-scale dangers than they're
used to. They're used to single-target, localized

enemies. They've stepped into a territory where
everything around you for forever is bad. It's

been fun to watch them squirm, I'm not going to
lie. As far as contracts go, that's the bread and

butter of the devils' work. That's how they gain
their influence and power. I was very eager to see

what the reaction was when such a contract was
presented. So, without spoiling anything, I am

very proud of my group. From a DM standpoint, not
for you guys. I absolutely love anything you do

that is a poor choice. It fills me with such joy
and inspiration. But to be fair, in the Nine

Hells, there is no real great choice. Everything
is going to probably end up poorly. So, good

luck!

BRIAN: Somebody's asking for some Lord Have Mercer
in the near future.

LAURA: I have a question though. If you were good
in the Nine Hells, if you did something nice,

that's actually the equivalent of doing something
bad?

MATT: I mean, it's not that black and white. If
you did something good, people would be like,

why'd you do that? Depending on who it was. We'll
find out, huh?

TRAVIS: We don't plan on doing anything good.

MATT: I didn't think so.

BRIAN: Or anything well.

MARISHA: Is it kind of like a Vegas situation,
like, what happens in the Nine Hells stays in the

Nine Hells? If so, Spring Break '94! Cancun!

TRAVIS: Are there brothels in Hell?

LAURA: "Are there brothels in hell." Are there
brothels in Hell?

MATT: You know what incubi and succubi are, guys?
Grog'll maybe find out! Tune in next week!

BRIAN: Don't taunt the DM.

LAURA: You have to sign a contract in order to
walk into the brothel.

MATT: What could possibly go wrong?

BRIAN: Guys, in an orderly fashion, please line up
for questions if you have them. We will get to

them shortly.

MATT: Where do they line up?

BRIAN: There's a mic in the center here, I see. I
am blinded (singing) blinded by the light!

(normal) Oh, there's a spotlight right there in
the center! Okay, up next, Sam. How much fun are

you having with everything going on right now?
Because it looks like the answer is a lot.

SAM: With my current state of characterization? I
don't want to spoil. Am I not supposed to spoil

things?

BRIAN: I don't know, what do you guys think? is
everyone caught up?

AUDIENCE MEMBERS: Yes!

BRIAN: Hit them with it, Sam!

SAM: Yeah man, so I get to play, unlike everyone
else on stage, a new character right now. It's so

exciting and it's so fun. It was terrifying for
the first two or three times, as it will be for

you all when you all die. But because, like these
guys said, we've been doing these characters for

so long, we know them backwards and forwards, but
to play a new guy is super weird. It feels like--

Well, I was going to say something really dirty
and I'm not going to. There's a little placard

right here that says, "Please be aware that
members of your audience are underage."

BRIAN: I said the F-word in the intro.

SAM: Anyway, I feel ham-handed and weird and
awesome. What am I doing? I don't know! I don't

know what I'm doing, oh god! Oh god, it's
happening, no! Stop it! No, it's very

exhilarating, Brian, and I'm having a lot of fun
with it. I don't know how long it'll last, but I'm

riding it.

TALIESIN: You've definitely inspired a lot of
vaguely drunk conversations about what we're going

to do next, between a bunch of us. We've started
talking.

LIAM: Lot of ideas. When you made your entrance
and saw all of our faces, did you feel like you

had walked into a seedy tavern on the wrong side
of town? Like, some guy breaking a bottle and

sizing you up?

SAM: You guys all had such scorn! Such hatred on
your faces! I was genuinely scared you would fire

me or something. I don't know. No, it was great.
It made me work harder to try to convince you to

let me stick around, and you did. For now.

LAURA: And then everything you did, I was like, I
don't believe it.

MARISHA: Laura and I were genuinely pissed at you
for a good 24 hours. Not cool.

SAM: Sorry. I trolled you guys.

MARISHA: You totally did.

BRIAN: Doesn't that character seem like the kind
of guy who would have a Chumbawamba tattoo?

SAM: For sure, for sure. He was into them long
before Tubthumping, though.

BRIAN: Yeah, that's true.

TALIESIN: Britney you don't know, but that, you
know. Okay. Glad that's making a map right there.

BRIAN: So, this question's from me.

SAM: It's for you?

BRIAN: No, from me, man! Watch my lips when I
speak! Read my lips! Noelle Stevenson was on the

show this week. Special guest star, and will be
back this week! Now, in almost 100 episodes of

Critical Role, there have been many, many guest
stars. Would you guys say this is the first

Noelle?

(groaning)

TRAVIS: Oh my god. Boo this man!

BRIAN: I'm not apologizing. I'm not taking it
back. Throw your fruit, America. Laura's face is

the reason that joke made the cut. I want to hear
everyone's favorite one-liners from the past 92

episodes.

LAURA: Our favorite what?

BRIAN: Like, pick out your favorite one-liner.
Rapid-fire them at me.

TALIESIN: People legitimately tweet quotes at me,
and my only reaction is, I said that? When did I

say that?

MARISHA: Sometimes Matt will read one back and
I'll be like, that's funny! Who said that? And

he'll be like, you did. And I'm like, oh.

TALIESIN: I don't even know the context anymore!

MARISHA: Yeah, what was I talking about?

TRAVIS: "Your secret is safe with my indifference"
is one.

TALIESIN: Thank you, I'm very proud of that one.

MARISHA: "Trust me, I have an intelligence of six.
I know what I'm doing."

TALIESIN: I'm going to be a jerk. I can only think
of one of my own. "Life needs things to live." I'm

so glad that has weirdly-- I was so tired. I'm so
pleased, thank you Sam, that has become a thing. I

can never escape it ever again.

SAM: It's profound.

TALIESIN: Oh, I was so tired.

LAURA: Oh man. I liked-- oh, I can't say it,
because under 18. "In the darkness, I say,

"'fuck.'" I liked that one.

MATT: I mean technically, it was written, but it
had a lot of impact, I think. By a good writer.

When Patrick Rothfuss wrote the letter to Keyleth,
the "You passed through fire," I think, was such a

wonderful encapsulation of her character arc at
that time.

LIAM: That guy can write!

MATT: Yeah! He should do a book! At least, a third
one. Sorry, Pat!

BRIAN: There was one episode, maybe 20 episodes
ago, where Matt was describing something and he's

like, "There's this giant cylinder. It's almost
wheel-shaped." And Sam goes, "Wheel?" That's like,

yes, a wheel-shaped wheel. Why wouldn't I have
just said, "a wheel"? Okay, last question from me,

and then we'll go to the audience. What's
something about your characters you think will

never change, despite what Vox Machina ends up
going through? Oh god, this guy.

TRAVIS: Ale.

BRIAN: Yeah, good answer.

MARISHA: I mean, she's always going to put her
foot in her mouth at least once a week.

TRAVIS: Get arrested once a year.

MARISHA: Yeah. Hopefully, I don't think I ever
want Keyleth to lose her wonderlust, her

excitement for the world and her love for the
world.

TALIESIN: I think the air of superiority may go.
It may not. But the anger issues, I don't think

are ever going away. He'll never stop pretending
he doesn't have them.

LIAM: Is that in character?

TALIESIN: (Percy voice) No, yes, of course.

SAM: Poop and/or puke.

LIAM: Vax will probably always step in front of
trains if he thinks it will keep the family safe.

LAURA: Aww. Urgh. Vex will probably always hold
grudges. She'll always want to get naked in random

situations. And she'll always love Trinket.

SAM: And Victor will have less and less digits.

MATT: I will always have multiple personality
disorder. There we go, thank you.

BRIAN: Who is up first at the mic with the
spotlight on it?

LAURA: In the Pikelight!

BRIAN: Hello!

SAM: Hey, Loot Crate shirt!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: So, my question is for Marisha,
Taliesin, and Sam. Simple, what would you

multiclass your character into if you had whatever
option?

TALIESIN: Oh, current character?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Yes, current character.

BRIAN: No, the one I'm writing for you for the
next campaign. I'm writing all your new

characters.

MARISHA: Barbarian.

TALIESIN: Whoa.

MARISHA: Yeah. But I'm going for that Archdruid,
bitches. I want that level 20!

TALIESIN: God, probably sorcerer at this point.
Which I know would be a little weird, but I'd make

it work. I'm not going to multiclass, but if he
did, that's where it would end up.

SAM: I mean, I just asked Matt what multiclassing
is, so. I don't really know how to play Dungeons

and Dragons. I don't know, wizard? Is that a
thing? Is wizard a thing? Okay, great.

MATT: Wizard is actually artificer-adjacent, so
yeah!

SAM: Okay, good.

LIAM: Yeah, you never play. You've only played 500
hours.

SAM: As one guy! Well, two.

MATT: You're a busy man, making Duck Tales and
shit. It's fine.

BRIAN: Thank you. Hey, what's your name?

JARED: Hi, I'm Jared. Hi. This question is
actually for Matt. You are awesome, and I aspire

to be a DM like you someday.

MATT: You are awesome, and I aspire to be you.

JARED: Thank you! So, I have watched your whole
series on tips for dungeons masters. I was

wondering if there was anything else that you had
to tell any dungeon masters who are up and coming?

Also, if maybe you're going to be on the floor to
sign my Dungeon Master's Guide and bless it so

that my campaign goes well?

BRIAN: Does that work, Matt? Do you hear from
people that, if you've blessed a Player's

Handbook, that they rule?

MATT: Yeah, dice and books before, and you know
what? I feel guilty if they don't work, and if

they work, I'm happy to take credit. But thank
you. As far as advice goes, my first point of

advice would be watch Matt Colville's YouTube
channel. There's a lot I would like to say, but I

don't have the time to get into the nitty-gritty,
and he has such an incredible way of communicating

very elaborate, detailed, and informative
conversations and discussions on this topic. If

you haven't seen his work, check out his videos.
They're incredible. He's a dear friend and an

amazing writer, so check it out. As far as
blessing your book, I can bless it from here, and

if you can hunt me down at some point today, we
couldn't get a spot to do a signing at this

convention, unfortunately. WonderCon was a little
slammed. But I will send my juju from here.

SAM: I'll grab a piece of his hair for you later.

BRIAN: Yeah, we can get that cleared with the con
staff. Who's up next? Step into the light! What's

up?

MARCUS: Hello!

TALIESIN: White Phoenix shirt, very solid. Feeling
it.

MARCUS: I'm Marcus, and my question is to Matt.
I've noticed a lot of 18s and 19s failing recently

while in, where they are. I'm trying to keep
spoilers out. Is that due to levels scaling, or is

it due to where they are?

MATT: It's due to the scaling of the entities that
they're working with, and the situation involved.

A DC can be set based on how difficult the
challenge is. You know, if a person's like, I'm

trying to stealth in a shadowy alleyway, that's
going to be a pretty low DC, but if I'm going to

try and stealth while standing on top of this
lighthouse in broad daylight, it'll probably have

a higher DC to roll a proper stealth check.

LIAM: I can do it.

MATT: He could probably pull it off. So yeah, I
adjust the DC. If a person's trying to convince

somebody and they make a really convincing
argument, I'll lower the DC for a persuasion roll.

If they really bungle it up, then I'll raise it a
little higher. So yeah, it'll adjust depending. A

lot of creatures that work in the place where they
currently are, you know, the Hells, they thrive on

deception and being paranoid. Especially in Dis.
Dispater, the archdevil of where they are right

now, is a very paranoid son of a bitch. That
nature of always looking to see if your underlings

are trying to undermine you means that if you're
trying to lie, they're going to definitely have a

high sense for that and be looking for that as
well. So yeah. To answer your question, yes. Thank

you.

BRIAN: Who's up next? I don't know why I said that
so creepy.

EDDIE: You've seen me before. I was at Gen Con. I
have a question for you guys. Oh, Eddie Freeman,

by the way. Freeman. Free man. Eddie Freeman. My
question for you is, you guys just entered Hell.

As your characters, what were your first
impressions and your second impressions? Of Hell?

TRAVIS: Everything's hot and it burns.

MARISHA: Kind of reminds us of the City of Brass.

TALIESIN: This is fine.

TRAVIS: The food is not that bad.

MATT: I'm going to call this to the art community.
Can somebody please do an art piece of Vox Machina

sitting in the City of Dis, saying communally,
"This is fine." Please? Sam.

SAM: My guy's been so petrified, terrified, for
the last, all of their travels together that this

is nothing new. I mean, he's at a baseline of
abject terror all the time.

LIAM: Temporarily thinking, one last job. Just one
last job, until it all fucks up again. Oops,

sorry.

SAM: Children! It's a Dungeons and Dragons term.

LAURA: I think Vex quickly realized that her
normal tricks aren't working down there, and now

she's at a loss. I don't know what the eff I'm
supposed to say. I don't know, because none of her

persuasion was working. It sucks!

MATT: Roll higher.

LAURA: Oh, it's the dice. It's totally just the
dice, it's not my bumbling over words.

MATT: No, not at all.

BRIAN: Okay, it's not the dice, because if two
thousand people believe one thing and one guy

believes another, and he goes, all of you were
wrong, I think it might be-- It's probably the

dice. Who's up next? Thank you, Eddie Freeman.
Good to see you, man. I love that thing.

LAURA: We still have it, yeah! We have, at our
house, you gave one to Travis before, right?

BRIAN: Oh, that's cool. Who's up next?

BRENDAN: Hey guys, my name is Brendan. I'm
flexing, because Travis, you're yoked as hell.

LAURA: Oh, you're wearing your Strongjaw shirt!

BRENDAN: So, thanks for the flex. Travis, this is
for you. You're not ashamed of being a fan of

Hamilton. Recently, Lin Manuel tweeted that he
played his first game of D&D. Sorry. Who would you

rather have a song of inspiration from, Scanlan or
Lin Manuel?

TRAVIS: Ooh. I would require a rap battle between
one Scanlan Shorthalt and one Lin Manuel Miranda.

To drop some lyrical rhymes! The winner could be
my inspiration maker.

MATT: I will say, now that Lin Manuel has gotten
himself a little warmed up, I think it's time for

him to take another crack at a different D&D
game.

LAURA: That would be amazing.

MATT: No, seriously, Lin, please come play with
us!

BRIAN: Get on it, Denise! Who's up next? Hey!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hello. So, Laura, you
specifically, this last episode, came in with a

slightly different accent. So, not to call you on
it, but how do you guys in total keep your voices

in check? How do you keep your voices in your head
in check?

LAURA: Normally it's not that hard! I came off of
an eight-hour session of recording as a South

African, so it was in my brain, is all.

SAM: I don't know how Matt does it. I mean, he
changes accents within sentences, sometimes.

MATT: I had a lot of time alone as a kid. I make
notes. I have general notes next to certain NPCs

of their vocal texture, their age, different
things to get me Cliffs Notes. I try and ballpark

it whenever they show up, or I make something up.

SAM: So is it like, age and a descriptor, or is it
like, this one sounds like Lucky the Leprechaun?

MATT: I mean, if there is a celebrity I can
attribute it to, I'll put that down. Like an Alan

Rickman type, or an Orson Welles type. Usually
it's like, you know, gravelly, low, basically what

you'd see in any voice-over side, where it's super
vague but just enough to get an idea.

LIAM: Oh, it must be a weird setlist, like,
Godfried, Chocolate Rain.

MATT: Kind of, yeah. Like most of my notes, it's
all Sanskrit at this point. It's only for me to

read.

BRIAN: Who is up next?

JARED #2: Hi.

BRIAN: What's your name?

JARED #2: My name is Jared as well. Hi. This is a
question for Matt. What's been one of your

favorite experiences as a DM in the past couple of
years, doing Critical Role?

MATT: Oh man. I mean, some of my favorite
experiences as a DM involve having an opportunity

to share what little knowledge I have with people,
and learn things from other DMs. You know, as a

community, D&D for a long time was whatever you
could learn from your local comic shop, and maybe

a forum board in the mid-2000s when that became
more of a thing. So now there's this breadth of

information out there, from all these different
schools of running a game. For me, it's been

really cool to learn from other people and try and
impart what I do know, that's hopefully helpful to

other people. That's been a big thing. As far as
actually playing a game with these guys, I'd say

probably the attack on Emon. Having a
two-and-a-half-year-long plot hook that's been

brewing and brewing, and get them into this place
of comfort and finality, and then smash it all to

pieces and watch their faces as everything they
know crumples around them. That was pretty fun.

BRIAN: Who's next? Step on up to the mic!

MARISHA: Each person that walks up, it's like a
reveal. Step into the spotlight!

BRIAN: Hi! Hey, what's your name?

ANTHONY: Anthony Lopez. So, my question is not
really specific to anyone, but who would your

greatest dream celebrity guest be?

MARISHA: Stephen Colbert.

LAURA: Oh my god, yes.

BRIAN: Scanlan Shorthalt.

SAM: He's a fun guy.

MATT: What about you guys? Anyone else?

TALIESIN: I feel like we've talked about this
before, and now I'm drawing a blank, other than

Lin Manuel.

SAM: It would be nice to have, like, the entire
cast of Cats. I don't know. Like, in costume. I

don't know. Might be fun.

MATT: As one cumulative guest? They switch out
roleplaying the character?

BRIAN: And then Sam could come in dressed as Hotis
from the Halloween episode and totally steal the

show, obviously!

MARISHA: We have tossed into the universe that we
would love to try and play with the Stranger

Things kids.

MATT: And since we already got Vin Diesel, the
next step obviously is Madame Judi Dench. I think

she'd have fun. Since he did teach her how to
play! Yeah.

BRIAN: Yeah, I've often heard, if you can get
Diesel, you can get Dame Judi. Who's up next?

Thank you.

TRAVIS: They package them together a lot.

SAM: One of our guests is here, by the way. Jason
Miller.

BRIAN: Jason Charles Miller, raise your hand! Also
did the theme song for Critical Role and Talks

Machina, ladies and gentlemen! Royalty.

LAURA: You know, he's the one that wrote our
opening theme song, right?

SAM: Also, Dame Judi Dench is right over there!

MATT: Hello!

AUDIENCE MEMBER: Hi! I mainly had a question about
when you converted from your pre-show game to your

live. Did anything change because you converted
from Pathfinder to 5th edition, character- or

story-wise?

MATT: Story-wise, no. I mean, some of the
character abilities changed based on the system,

but not a whole lot, thankfully.

SAM: Some of the mechanics of how it works change.
We had to re-learn. We did a couple of practice

sessions with Matt.

MATT: I'll tell you, Scanlan became a lot more
helpful.

SAM: Yeah, for sure.

TALIESIN: We had, like, three iterations of me
before I was really functional, I think.

MATT: Yeah, and then I had to completely create
the 5th-edition transition for your gunslinger,

but other than that.

LAURA: I almost switched. When we switched over to
5th edition, there was that alternate path for

ranger that I feel is actually way cooler than the
beastmaster. Yeah, that's why you home-brewed so

much of it, and it was awesome. But it was like,
Trinket. What am I going to do? I have to have

Trinket, he's Trinket! So I stuck with it.

SAM: You could leave the bear. Leave the bear
behind.

LAURA: Leave Doty. How about you just leave Doty?

SAM: Doty works.

LAURA: Doty stands around and he's heavy and he's
slow.

SAM: And he writes my every word! Wouldn't you
want that in real life? Wouldn't you want a guy

right behind you all the time?

TALIESIN: I will admit, I really like Matt's
Doty-face.

LAURA: Yeah, it is really great.

TALIESIN: It's like a cartoon bird.

MATT: Thank you very much.

BRIAN: Who's next?

TRAVIS: Step into the light!

LAURA: (gasps) Fun buns!

BRIAN: Hey, what's your name?

DIANE: I'm Diane.

LAURA: Oh wait, those are ears. They look like fun
buns from up here.

DIANE: No, they're ears. My question is to the
panel. Has Matt always been this sadistic, or is

he really working at it?

MATT and LAURA: Always.

BRIAN: That is a great question.

SAM: He's been really bad lately, but at the
beginning of the game, he was very supportive and

he wanted us to enjoy. He's like a dealer, right?
He hooks you with some easy kills, and then slips

you the hard stuff. Then he's got you.

MATT: There has to be, you know, ebb and flow.
There has to be some encounters that are

relatively not as challenging so you can really
enjoy the power that you've acquired as a

character. Then there have to be challenges along
the way to make you feel like it's a terrible,

difficult circumstance. Yeah.

LIAM: Matt is generally one of the kindest people
I've ever met, but those quiet waters run deep,

man. You don't know what's under the surface.
(hums Jaws theme)

MARISHA: Having the entire party strung up on a
tree in Whitestone, that's when I was like, Who

are you? Who am I sleeping next to every night?
Oh god!

MATT: Hi. I have a love for gothic horror, I'm
sorry!

MARISHA: What do you dream?

MATT: I dream of trees.

BRIAN: We should move on before this engagement
falls apart. Thank you very much. Before our very

eyes! How was WonderCon? Well, we saw the breakup
of an engagement. Who's next?

LIAM: I had it too, though. When Gilmore shanked
Vax, in my mind, I was like, how dare you! How

dare you!

MATT: There was a reason.

MARISHA: And this past game, you punished Travis
for using big words!

MATT: Because it was funny! And Travis agrees!

TRAVIS: Yeah, I caught that. I did it right at the
same time, I was like, Agh! It hurts!

BRIAN: Hey, what's your name?

KYRIE: I'm Kyrie. Hi! My question was for Matt.
What's your favorite mini that you've used in the

game so far? Marisha, does he sit on the floor at
home going, "Grr! Argh!" with them?

MARISHA: Sometimes. Not lying. Every time he gets
a new Dwarven Forge set, he plays house.

BRIAN: Periscope! Periscope!

MATT: It's practicing and rehearsing and learning
techniques for the show, guys! That's totally it!

No, to be fair, for a good ten years since they
first announced it, and I couldn't afford it, I've

always looked at a distance from the colossal red
dragon mini. The colossal mini. Just could never

get it. When you guys, as a community, sent two of
them? It was like a long-time Christmas coming

that finally arrived. Those are centerpieces that
I'm still proud of to this day. Then somebody sent

me a painted Tarrasque that's just waiting for the
day that it gets to be unleashed! That's pretty

fun too. That's going to be good.

TRAVIS: No. No.

BRIAN: Hard pass from Travis on that.

MATT: So yeah, definitely probably those two.
Thank you.

BRIAN: Who is up next? Yeah! Hey, what's your
name?

SEAN: Sean. Hi. I wanted to start with a little,
Matt and Liam, you inspired me to be a DM. Laura,

Marisha, and Ashley, you are three of my greatest
female role models, even though Ashley's not here.

Sam and Taliesin, you significantly improved my
wit, and Travis, I've started working out. I

swear. My question is, when Tary's book is finally
released, like Volo and Elminster did, will Vox

Machina release an annotated copy?

SAM: Did he say when Tary dies? Oh. Will I write one in
real life, is that the question?

LAURA: No, the question is will Vox Machina
release a second one with the truth.

SAM: Sorry, I was really not listening at all. I
actually sat down the other night to maybe write a

little bit of a book.

MATT: Do it, that'd be awesome!

SAM: Yeah, I really did. I don't know what's going
to happen.

MATT: That'd be a lot of fun! Would you guys like
to see that?

(cheering)

SAM: I don't know. I will see how far I get. We'll
release it and they can all annotate it and cross

stuff out.

MATT: Oh my god, that'd be so funny to see
everything from his perspective. Good suggestion.

BRIAN: All right, who's up now?

LAURA: Oh, I see a costume.

BRIAN: What's your name?

JOEL: I'm Joel. Favorite magical item?

MATT: Favorite magical item?

TRAVIS: Deck of Many Things!

LAURA: Broom of Flying!

MARISHA: I'm a little partial to the Dust of
Tracelessness, just because then I get to hear

Travis say, "I do the Dust of Tracelessness with
my flower girl routine."

TALIESIN: I like the milk/water/mayonnaise jar.

MATT: The Alchemical Jug?

LIAM: Grog with the Bag of Holding has brought us
so much joy.

MARISHA: Basically all the things Grog has. All of
Grog's stuff.

LAURA: The amount of dried poo that's probably
floating around in the Bag of Holding.

LIAM: The worst dimension ever.

MATT: The Grog dimension.

TRAVIS: What you fools haven't realized is that I
have amassed all the magical power in the

universe. I'm going to kill all of you.

BRIAN: He's turned into Thanos.

TRAVIS: I'm going to hot-glue it all to an oven
mitt and be like, I am now the strongest in the

world!

LAURA: The greatest part is how detailed Travis's
list is for the Bag of Holding. I mean, it is

like, from the beginning of our game, every single
thing written down in there.

TALIESIN: That Asmodeus ring, that was a deep cut,
man.

TRAVIS: We got dried poo in that bag.

LAURA: That's what I'm saying, I know there is
dried poo in there.

TRAVIS: Yeah, there's like three pieces in there.
You know, some people collect sand from different

beaches? I got to take poop.

BRIAN: Some people collect poop from different
bitches. Who's up next?

MATT: My answer, real fast, to that, because I
feel it needs a mention, is Craven Edge. Just

because the Grog interactions were so much fun.

BRIAN: Yes, look at this! What's your name?

LAURA: Oh my god! You look beautiful!

CHRISTINA: Hi guys, my name's Christina. So, I
have a question for Taliesin and Matt, actually.

With Percival's love of these demon deals, and
Matt's newfound love of demon litigation with that

contract, in the Hells, can we expect a sort of
version of soul claims court at this point? Over

Percy's soul?

SAM: The people's court.

TALIESIN: Some sort of soul litigation?

MATT: I guess we'll have to find out. I mean, it
depends on whether or not the first person the

deal was made with still exists, and if it does--
And there is actually a place in the Hells for

people that are contesting contracts. There is a
pit fiend, Baatezu, who is there as the judge that

is part of the process of you trying to appeal
your contract when your soul arrives. Usually goes

poorly anyway, but there are a few that get off.
It's kind of fun.

LIAM: Sounds like Hell within a Hell.

TALIESIN: Do a little Faust play. Mephistopheles.

MATT: I guess we'll see, if you take the other
pacts. Or break this one.

TALIESIN: I'm a little worried. I don't know, Hell
makes me very nervous right now, I've got to

admit. I'm a little nervous.

TRAVIS: Nah, you're fine.

MARISHA: Remember, this is fine.

BRIAN: Great question, even better costume. And it
lights up? The bow lights up? Hell yeah! Somebody

get you a prize. We've got time for two more.
Let's move quick, so we can get them in. Hey,

what's your name?

ASHLEY: Hi, I'm Ashley. So, in the earlier parts
of the show, you guys were given the jerky that

had a very specific smell. We have our own
homemade jerky that we would like to give to you.

I'm wondering what would be the best route to get
it to you.

TRAVIS: Just throw it from where you are.

LIAM: Said the woman covered in blood?

SAM: So you, a stranger covered in blood, want to
give us raw meat? Okay.

TALIESIN: I usually only accept meat from friends
covered in blood.

MARISHA: There are a few Geek & Sundry reps that
are watching right now. They'll come up, like

Eddie over here who's waving his hands, or Chris
who's walking toward you in a very dedicated

manner. Talk to one of them, they'll help you
out.

BRIAN: Okay, last question. Sorry guys. Who's up
last?

AUDIENCE MEMBER: My question is for Sam. What is
Scanlan doing right now in the story? What do you

think he'd be doing right now?

SAM: What is he doing right now? That is a good
question. Me and Matt are going to meet this week

to figure that out. I could go one of two ways.
He's either in a gutter somewhere sort of blitzed

out of his mind with children peeing on him, or he
has killed two people in a casino somewhere and is

being showered in gold. That's it.

BRIAN: Thank you guys for asking questions! Thank
you for waiting in line so long! Thank you for

coming! I would like to thank my guests! Cravitz
Fillinghand. Mariska Haritray. Owl-skin Taffy.

Jean-Claude van Sam Fecal. Mausoleum Robe Tie-In.
Fedora, Maybe? And our fearless leader, the one

and only Path Traverser. Give it up for the cast
of Critical Role! Don't forget to love each other,

and it's almost kind of Thursday! We love you
guys, thank you!

[upbeat music]