LIAM: Let me see. I'm going to keep it aiming
around. You're on now.

MARISHA: Hi guys!

LIAM: I lost Laura, you got Marisha. Throw
questions at her, and I'll ask them to her. Keep

waving. Yay. Hi cast. Okay, good, good. Woo, woo.

LAURA: Marisha.

LIAM: Kirsten says "Marisha, this is cray cray." Oh
jeez I backed into--

SAM: Okay first question.

LIAM: How are you Marisha?

MARISHA: Oh I am fantastic, thank you so much for
actually asking a question.

LAURA: A good question. Super good question guys.

MARISHA: It looks like they're having a video
capture card issue, so we're doing this so you

guys don't watch the whole show in fullscreen.
Because we're sure you'd be very upset about that.

LIAM: Favorite beast form. What's your favorite
beast form?

MARISHA: Oh, Minxie. All day, every day. But
Minxie has personal value and attachment. And

Travis named her.

LIAM: Right. Sentimental value.

MARISHA: Sentimental value.

LIAM: Yeah yeah.

MARISHA: Yeah. 100%.

LIAM: How are you doing?

MARISHA: Once again, I'm phenomenal. I'm so
thrilled that you care enough to ask me twice,

chat. Thank you. Good. My dad is in town.
This is my dad everybody.

LIAM: You want him on camera? There he goes!
Whoa!

MARISHA: He just flew in from Kentucky two hours ago.

LIAM: They look just like each other!

MARISHA: Yeah! (laughs)

LIAM: How does that happen?!

MARISHA: It's like there's science behind it.

LIAM: What's your favorite spell?

MARISHA: What's my favorite spell? I mean, Call
Lightning has special love as well because it's

Call Lighting.

LIAM: I'm getting a "Woo-hoo Kentucky."

MARISHA and MARISHA'S DAD: Woo Kentucky! Woo!
Kentucky!

LIAM: All right. Minxie, thank you. I'm going to
find another cast member and bother them.

MARISHA: Yeah. Do that.

LIAM: All right we'll go back to Laura.

LAURA: Do you have questions for me now?

LIAM: Yeah. "Liam, can't see the face camera is
pointed down?" I don't think so, I see Laura's

face on it.

LAURA: Stop it! I just want to look at what's
happening!

LIAM: Well if you come around you're going to
see-- See?

LAURA: Hello Laura. Can you see me? Can you see
me?

LIAM: Someone say "I see Laura" if you see Laura.

LAURA: Or is just like from here on down?

LIAM: Hello from Alaska. Hi Laura. They see you.
How does it feel making 50 episodes, Laura?

LAURA: Feels pretty good.

LIAM: Yeah?

LAURA: Feels kind of-- it feels kind of traumatic
actually. Just a little bit of pressure.

LIAM: Elaborate on that.

LAURA: Well I was just worried that when we got to
the 50th episode we were all going to die, or,

even if one of us dies, like now I feel like we've
been together so long, and with you guys for so

long, that if one us dies or if all of us die
(pause) I don't know, man. It's scary.

LIAM: What's your-- I'm going to cheer you up.
What's your favorite Trinket moment?

LAURA: Okay. My favorite Trinket moment ever?

LIAM: Yes. Ever.

LAURA: Favorite Trinket moment! Okay, I really
like when you guys tied a bunch of bows on him.

That was really cute.

LIAM: You're welcome.

LAURA: But I wasn't actually there for most of
it.

LIAM: You come back at the end!

LAURA: I really liked when he ripped a vampire's
head off.

LIAM: Mm-hmm.

LAURA: Come on. That's a pretty major kill for a
bear.

LIAM: What are your feelings on Grog's recent
death?

LAURA: What a freaking surprise! We drove home
from that session and it was like, Travis couldn't

even talk. Both of us were like, "Holy moly! What
a freaking night!" Like if he'd have died? What?

And none of us even knew? I guess he did die.

LIAM: (humming) Nope, not going to ask that one.

LAURA: What is it?

LIAM: Nope. All right, I'm going to find another
person.

LAURA: Aww, come on back.

LIAM: They're busy.

ASHLEY: Busy doing stuff.

LIAM: Right, stuff. We can't talk about that.

LIAM: Taliesin.

TALIESIN: Hi.

MARISHA: Such a big giant--

TALIESIN: I can't say what I'm working on, can I?
I'm doing things. I'm working super secret

projects I can't talk about.

LIAM: You can answer questions right?

TALIESIN: Oh yeah.

LIAM: Okay. Can you break your NDA and tell us
what you're working on?

TALIESIN: Yes.

LIAM: No, they didn't ask that.

TALIESIN: I can. Will I? No. But yeah.

LIAM: What's your favorite book, Taliesin?

TALIESIN: If I'm just for fun? Actually just
because I was a nerd, this kind of nerd as a kid--

LIAM: Surely not, no.

TALIESIN: The Illuminatus Trilogy was a lot of fun
when I was a teenager. By Robert Anton Wilson.

LIAM: Question from me: What's your favorite comic
book?

TALIESIN: (raspberry)

LIAM: What are three of your favorite comic
books?

TALIESIN: Right now, stuff I'm really enjoying
is-- The Wicked and Divine is fucking amazing.

What else was I reading today? Miss Marvel is a
lot of fun if you're into the Marvel stuff. For a

DC book I'm really enjoying American Alien,
Superman and American Alien.

MARISHA: Is this one written by Max?

TALIESIN: Yes. Max Landis's weirdly good take on
Superman. It makes you like Superman.

LIAM: Mmm. Another question from me.

TALIESIN: Yeah.

LIAM: How does it feel to find out I have more
natural 20 rolls than you?

MARISHA: That you have more what?

LIAM: Natural 20s.

MARISHA: Oh.

TALIESIN: You're a liar. You're a dirty liar!

LIAM: (laughing)

MARISHA: Can we talk about this for a second
though?

TALIESIN: No.

MARISHA: Because once again-- Okay, hang on.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: No, no no no no.

MARISHA: I'm going to find out about this.

TALIESIN: Oh god.

MARISHA: Crit Role Stats put up a chart ranking
our nat 20s and our nat fails.

TALIESIN: They're biased. (laughs) I'm trying.

LIAM: I think you have more combat 20s.

TALIESIN: Well you do roll a lot of natural 20s
also when things are going--

MARISHA: You do roll a lot of natural 20s.

LIAM: I also lie constantly. Just like
constantly.

MARISHA: You are a fucking liar.

LIAM: Yes.

TALIESIN: I was amazed to find that your real name
wasn't Liam.

LIAM: (humming)

MARISHA: It's true. Just like you live in
Hollywood.

LIAM: (humming)

LIAM: Yeah, well Adolf is really hard to sell.

MARISHA: (laughing)

LIAM: In the entertainment industry? Probably in
all industries.

TALIESIN: That got dark! (laugh) Little--

MARISHA: That's true, a lot of the producers are--
You know what?

TALIESIN: Never mind.

MARISHA: I'm going to move on.

TALIESIN: Walking on, walking on.

MARISHA: So.

TALIESIN: Yeah no. I'm actually very excited that
I'm-- I feel better about it.

MARISHA: Well hang on--

TALIESIN: I felt weird about it.

MARISHA: Because me and Taliesin and-- but Ashley
doesn't really count, because she's kind of an

anomaly. She's been out--

LIAM: She said you don't count. She said--

ASHLEY: I'm an anomaly?

MARISHA: --the math.

TALEISIN: Yeah. The grouping is too small. The
sample is too small.

MARISHA: The sample is too small. Sam and I were
tied on natural 20s and only two away from natural

ones, which makes me think it's not-- We just-- 
how we roll

TALIESIN: You do roll-- well it's the battle
rolls, because like-- I roll a twenty three times

an attack.

MARISHA: Right.

TALIESIN: So it--

MARISHA: Most of the time we don't even roll to
attack. Matt is rolling against us.

TALIESIN: Against your magic.

MARISHA: Right.

LAURA: And me and Liam roll stealth checks all the
time.

TALIESIN: And that's where your numbers come from.
Yeah. That's where your numbers come from. You get

all the passive rolls.

MARISHA: I mean. There's all the skill checks but
like you were saying, roll three, and you do too

LIAM: You also-- when you roll 20s, you really
celebrate.

TALIESIN: I do. It feels good.

LIAM: Noticeable.

TALIESIN: I need the dopamine, man.

LIAM: (laughing)

TALIESIN: The reason I have the Super Mario coin
as my text message is because every time I get a

text message it's like, Ah! It can't be that bad.

MARISHA: Wondering how much percentage I am I
wonder how much more less we roll than you

TALIESIN: You know what? We don't' have to figure
that out, because CritRoleStats will do that for us.

MARISHA: CritRoleStats will murder us if we ask
them to count many times we roll.

TALIESIN: I know.

MARISHA and TALIESIN: Don't do that.

TALIESIN: Really don't do that.

LIAM: I'm going to attempt to turn the camera
around

LAURA: No no no-- I'm scared to give it over--

LIAM: --camera. Oh look we're still there!

LAURA: I was going to hold it for you.

LIAM: So that's all right. I'll answer two
questions. The right ones. Okay. (humming)

The podcast will happen sometime in late 2022 
after civilization has fallen. We will be using

tin cans and a string.

LAURA: How are those wounds?

LIAM: Oh man. I'm going to pull my pants down but right in
there? It is the nastiest; it is dark brown.

LAURA: I'm still sore!

LIAM: Terrible.

LAURA: We did this last week, you guys.

LIAM: Hmm. (noise) The game with my daughter has
not happened yet, that's on Sunday. Where are

Travis and Sam? They're making out in the men's
room. Laura, if Trinket was a person, what would

his race and class be?

LAURA: Isn't there a bear person class?

LIAM: Were-bear?

LAURA: He's a were-bear.

LIAM: He's a Care Bear.

LAURA: He's a were-bear and he is... I think he'd
just be a fighter, a barbarian.

LIAM: Somebody asked who is the best archer.

LAURA: Who's the best archer? Ashley.

LIAM: No, between you and me.

LAURA: Me.

LIAM: They didn't ask about Ashley, they asked
about you and me.

LAURA: I was not as good.

LIAM: You sure? That's not what I remember.

LAURA: That's only because I started out not
great, the one that had the thing for the arrow slot--

LIAM: Pride talking.

LAURA: So I was on one of these ones that didn't
have a thing to say arrow and Liam won.

LIAM: I shot all the bows and hit the target all
the time.

LAURA: No you didn't.

LIAM: All the time.

LAURA: No you didn't!

LIAM: I hit the target all the time!

LAURA: You lie!

LIAM: I told you I was a liar. Let me see, one
more-- give me a twin question. One twin question.

I'm sure Travis watched the NFL draft.

LAURA: Good luck on your interview! Oh! You got
it?! I remember that from Twitter!

LIAM: Oh cool. (gibberish) Always, that's the
answer, everybody. My middle name is--

LAURA: Like in real life?

LIAM: My middle name is Christopher.

LAURA: My middle name is Dawn.

LIAM: Dawn? Dong?

LAURA: Dawn. D-A-W-N.

LIAM: Laura Dong Bailey.

LAURA: Yes I have one AC shirt you made me, thank
you very much.

LIAM: How do you guys play twins so well?

LAURA: It's in the laundry right now, actually. We
actually are twins.

LIAM: We actually crawled inside the womb of a
large animal for a day just to experience that together.

LAURA: It was uncomfortable.

LIAM: It was. I was glad to get back out.

LAURA: It was a very large creature.

LIAM: It was a whale. (mumbling) Uh, seriously
twins in real life? Yes, Liam, will you be on Tabletop?

LAURA: Will you be on Tabletop?

LIAM: (I don't know noise)

LAURA: Seriously? You need to be on Tabletop.

LIAM: Talk to Wheaton. (humming)

LAURA: Maybe if you were as cool as your sister
you'd be on Tabletop.

LIAM: That's not possible. "Do you ball like
Jordan?" Hell yeah, I ball like Jordan. I'm terrible

at sports. All right, I'm going to find somebody
else.

LIAM: What are you guys doing?

ASHLEY: Still going over things. It's important
stuff. I've returned and I haven't updated my

character sheet in a very long time.

MATT: She actually did. It wasn't that bad.

LIAM: Scandalous.

ASHLEY: I was just nervous that maybe I did
it wrong.

MATT: She did everything right. She was worried
for no reason.

LIAM: Okay. Remember to Turn Undead. All right.
Here is-- oh look they're over here!

LAURA: You're on--

SAM: And then I told the stewardess, "No. My nuts
are already in the-- Oh hi!"

TRAVIS: Hey!

LIAM: Quick! Ask these a-holes a question then
we'll go back and get on the video.

SAM: Oh is it ready?

LIAM: Yes. Ask them questions. Manly questions.
Tell Travis "Go Cowboys."

TRAVIS: Go Cowboys. Ezekiel Elliott running back,
Ohio State.

LIAM: "Are you excited about Zeke?" Somebody just
asked.

TRAVIS: Ezekiel Elliott let's go. Number 14, let's
go! Time to go to work!

LIAM: Favorite flannel? Oh no, somebody just said
that was their favorite flannel. Sam, how are you

so manly?

SAM: Because I stand next to Travis and his musk
wears off on me sometimes. I sort of catch it in

the air.

TRAVIS: There's stone giant strength and then
there's Willingblam musk.

SAM: (laugh) Willingblam musk.

TRAVIS: (Grog voice) I'm going to bottle it.

SAM: A scent. For him.

TRAVIS: Yes! (laugh)

LIAM: All right guys, I think we're going to go
get-- oh fuck a duck. We're going to find our way

back to set so I'm going to end the Periscope.
Thanks for your patience.

SAM: Good luck, technical stuff!

LIAM: Yep. Go Kevdak. What did I say?

SAM: What?

TALIESIN: [inaudible]

SAM: Wait, are we supposed to go back?